# Pneumonia-Detection-Using-CNN
This is a course project done with a group of 3 people in our institute course EE769- Introduction to Machine Learning. It is a replication of excisting research paper-Pneumonia  Detection Using CNN based feature extraction(https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&amp;arnumber=8869364)
Abstract—Bacteria, such as Streptococcus pneumonia, often cause a severe infectious disease that affects the lungs. According to the World Health Organization (WHO), pneumonia is responsible for one in three deaths in India. Chest X-rays are commonly used to diagnose pneumonia but require the evaluation of expert radiologists. Therefore, developing an automatic system for detecting pneumonia would be highly beneficial, especially in remote areas where access to medical expertise may be limited. Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) have successfully analysed medical images and are gaining attention for disease classification. Pre-trained CNN models on large-scale datasets can be helpful in image classification tasks. In this project, we evaluate the effectiveness of pre-trained CNN models as feature extractors followed by different classifiers for classifying abnormal and normal chest X-rays. We determine the optimal CNN model for this purpose and show that pretrained CNN models and supervised classifier algorithms can be highly effective in analysing chest X-ray images and detecting pneumonia. Our statistical results demonstrate the potential of this approach in improving pneumonia diagnosis and treatment
